README.md, before:

# Community Store API

[![Software License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

A concrete5 add-on that provides a RESTful API for Community Store data, returning and receiving JSON data.

## Current Functionality

- Fetch lists of orders and individual order details
- Update the fulfilment status of orders 
- Fetch lists of products and individual products
- Update product and variation stock levels by product ID or by SKU
- Fetch fulfilment statuses

This functionality may be expanded in the future.

## Setup

Once installed, the Community Store API is accessed through concrete5's built-in API, which uses **OAuth2** for authentication.
To configure an integration:
- Visit in the concrete5 dashboard, **System & Settings -> API**
- Enable the API via the checkbox if not already enabled, and ensure the **Client Credentials** option is checked under the **Enabled Grant Types**
- Add an Integration via the **Add Integration** button
- Give the integration a name appropriate for the purpose, i.e. 'Community Store API'
- Record the *Client ID* and *Client Secret* values generated

## Missing Authorization Header
When running concrete5 with Apache with CGI/FastCGI, Authorization headers may not be passed to PHP, resulting in a 'Missing Authorization header' error message.
Adding the following line to an .htaccess file can correct this:

`SetEnvIf Authorization .+ HTTP_AUTHORIZATION=$0`

## Usage
Once an integration has been created through concrete5's dashboard, the Client ID and Client Secret can be used to generate access tokens, and those are then used to access the API.

Request access tokens by sending a POST request to the URL: `/oauth/2.0/token`, sending in the body:

- grant_type: "client_credentials"
- scope: "cs:orders:read cs:products:write cs:products:read cs:products:write"
- client_id 
- client_secret

The scopes passed can be reduced down to only those needed for the integration. 

A JSON response will contain an `access_token` value. The access token typically lasts for 1 hour.

The access token can then be used when performing requests against the API, being sent as an authorization header. The authorization header needs to be prefixed with 'Bearer '.

Responses follow typical RESTful style HTTP response codes, such as 404 for not found records, 200 for found records, etc, along with error messages.

### Order related endpoints:

#### GET /cs/api/v1/orders
Get paginated orders
- scope required: cs:orders:read
- example response:
```
{
    "data": [
        {
            "id": 3,
            "date_placed": {
                "date": "2020-10-06 12:12:37.000000",
                "timezone": "America/Phoenix"
            },
            "total": 100.50,
            "payment_method": "Invoice",
            "payment_date": null,
            "payment_reference": null,
            "shipping_method": "",
            "fulfilment": {
                "status": "Delivered",
                "handle": "Delivered",
                "tracking_id": '123',
                "tracking_code": 'ABC1234',
                "tracking_url": null
            },
            "locale": "en_US",
            "customer": {
                "email": "test@test.com,
                "username": null,
                "billing": {
                    "phone": "123123123",
                    "first_name": "Joe",
                    "last_name": "Smith",
                    "company": "ABC Company",
                    "address": {
                        "address1": "123 Street",
                        "address2": "",
                        "address3": null,
                        "city": "Phoenix",
                        "state_province": "AZ",
                        "country": "US",
                        "postal_code": "55555"
                    }
                },
                "shipping": {
                    "first_name": "Joe",
                    "last_name": "Smith",
                    "company": "ABC Company", 
                    "address": {
                          "address1": "123 Street",
                          "address2": "",
                          "address3": null,
                          "city": "Phoenix",
                          "state_province": "AZ",
                          "country": "US",
                          "postal_code": "55555"
                      }
                }
            },
            "items": [
                {
                    "id": 123,
                    "name": "Example Product",
                    "sku": "ABCD",
                    "quantity": 1,
                    "price": 100.50
                }
            ]
        }

        // ... addition 19 orders would be included here

    ],
    "meta": {
        "pagination": {
            "total": 25,
            "count": 20,
            "per_page": 20,
            "current_page": 1,
            "total_pages": 2,
            "links": {
                "next": "http://concrete5.test/cs/api/v1/orders?page=2"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

##### Paginating Orders
Orders are returned with the most recent orders first, which is the same as the order ID in descending order.

The orders are paginated, returning 20 orders at a time. Note in the response there is a `meta` -> `pagination` section, containing values representing the pagination position.
The `links` within the pagination data include when applicable previous and next URLs, to navigate the pages of orders. No more pages are available when the `next` value is not returned.
The GET attribute `page` is used in the API call to select which page to return.

#### GET /cs/api/v1/orders/oID
Get an order
- scope required: cs:orders:read
- url parameters: oID = Order ID
- response: JSON representing individual order, within `data` value

#### PATCH /cs/api/v1/orders/oID
Update fulfilment details of an an individual order
- scope required: 'cs:orders:write
- updatable fields: tracking_id, tracking_code, tracking_url, handle
- raw body expected: JSON data, e.g.:
```
{
"data":
  { 
      "fulfilment": { 
          "handle": "shipped",
          "tracking_id": "123123123",
          "tracking_code": "AAABBCCC",
          "tracking_url": "https://trackmyparcel.com"
      }
  }
}
```
- response: JSON representing individual order, within `data` value, after update performed

#### GET /cs/api/v1/fulfilmentstatuses
Get all fulfilment statuses
- scope required: cs:orders:read
- example response:
```
{
    "data": [
        {
            "id": "1",
            "handle": "incomplete",
            "name": "Awaiting Processing"
        },
        {
            "id": "2",
            "handle": "processing",
            "name": "Processing"
        },
        {
            "id": "3",
            "handle": "shipped",
            "name": "Shipped"
        },
        {
            "id": "4",
            "handle": "delivered",
            "name": "Delivered"
        },
        {
            "id": "5",
            "handle": "nodelivery",
            "name": "Will not deliver"
        },
        {
            "id": "6",
            "handle": "returned",
            "name": "Returned"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Product related endpoints:

#### GET /cs/api/v1/products
Get all products
- scope required: cs:products:read
- response: JSON array of products, within `data` value

##### Paginating Products
Products are returned with the most recently added products first.

The products are paginated, returning 20 products at a time. Note in the response there is a `meta` -> `pagination` section, containing values representing the pagination position.
The `links` within the pagination data include when applicable previous and next URLs, to navigate the pages of products. No more pages are available when the `next` value is not returned.
The GET attribute `page` is used in the API call to select which page to return.

#### GET /cs/api/v1/products/pID
Get a product
- scope required: cs:products:read
- url parameters: pID = Product ID
- response: JSON representing individual product, within `data` value
- example response:
```
{
    "data": {
        "id": 123,
        "name": "Example Product",
        "sku": "ABCD",
        "barcode": "",
        "active": true,
        "stock_unlimited": false,
        "stock_level": 10,
        "short_description": "Short description HTML",
        "description": "Extended description HTML",
        "brand": null,
        "price": 100.50,
        "primary_image": "https://domain.com/product.jpg",
        "additional_images": [
            "https://domain.com/product2.jpg"
        ],
        "groups": [
            "Product Group 1"
        ],
        "categories": [
            {
                "name": "Product Category 1",
                "url": "https://domain.com/category1"
            } 
        ],
        "variations": [],
        "date_added": {
            "date": "2020-10-05 15:41:00.000000",
            "timezone": "America/Phoenix"
        },
       "date_updated": {
            "date": "2020-10-05 15:41:00.000000",
            "timezone": "America/Phoenix"
        }
    }
}
```

#### PATCH /cs/api/v1/products/pID
Update a product
- updatable fields: stock_unlimited (boolean), stock_level (float)
- scope required: cs:products:write
- url parameters: pID = Product ID
- raw body expected: JSON data, e.g.:
```
{
  "data":
    { 
        "stock_level": 5,
        "stock_unlimited": true
    }
}
 ```
- response: JSON representing individual product, within `data` value, after update performed
 

#### GET /cs/api/v1/skus/sku
Get stock level of a product or variation, found via SKU 
- scope required: cs:products:read
- url parameters: sku = Product or Variation SKU

#### PATCH /cs/api/v1/skus/sku
Update the stock level of a product or variation by SKU
- updatable fields: stock_unlimited (boolean), stock_level (float)
- scope required: cs:products:write
- url parameters: sku = Product or Variation SKU
- raw body expected: JSON data, e.g.:
```
{
"data":
    { 
        "stock_level": 5,
        "stock_unlimited": true
    }
}
```

Commit message:

- Add OData style filter param for filtering products by date added and updated

README.md, after:

# Community Store API

[![Software License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](LICENSE)

A concrete5 add-on that provides a RESTful API for Community Store data, returning and receiving JSON data.

## Current Functionality

- Fetch lists of orders and individual order details
- Update the fulfilment status of orders 
- Fetch lists of products and individual products
- Update product and variation stock levels by product ID or by SKU
- Fetch fulfilment statuses

This functionality may be expanded in the future.

## Setup

Once installed, the Community Store API is accessed through concrete5's built-in API, which uses **OAuth2** for authentication.
To configure an integration:
- Visit in the concrete5 dashboard, **System & Settings -> API**
- Enable the API via the checkbox if not already enabled, and ensure the **Client Credentials** option is checked under the **Enabled Grant Types**
- Add an Integration via the **Add Integration** button
- Give the integration a name appropriate for the purpose, i.e. 'Community Store API'
- Record the *Client ID* and *Client Secret* values generated

## Missing Authorization Header
When running concrete5 with Apache with CGI/FastCGI, Authorization headers may not be passed to PHP, resulting in a 'Missing Authorization header' error message.
Adding the following line to an .htaccess file can correct this:

`SetEnvIf Authorization .+ HTTP_AUTHORIZATION=$0`

## Usage
Once an integration has been created through concrete5's dashboard, the Client ID and Client Secret can be used to generate access tokens, and those are then used to access the API.

Request access tokens by sending a POST request to the URL: `/oauth/2.0/token`, sending in the body:

- grant_type: "client_credentials"
- scope: "cs:orders:read cs:products:write cs:products:read cs:products:write"
- client_id 
- client_secret

The scopes passed can be reduced down to only those needed for the integration. 

A JSON response will contain an `access_token` value. The access token typically lasts for 1 hour.

The access token can then be used when performing requests against the API, being sent as an authorization header. The authorization header needs to be prefixed with 'Bearer '.

Responses follow typical RESTful style HTTP response codes, such as 404 for not found records, 200 for found records, etc, along with error messages.

### Order related endpoints:

#### GET /cs/api/v1/orders
Get paginated orders
- scope required: cs:orders:read
- example response:
```
{
    "data": [
        {
            "id": 3,
            "date_placed": {
                "date": "2020-10-06 12:12:37.000000",
                "timezone": "America/Phoenix"
            },
            "total": 100.50,
            "payment_method": "Invoice",
            "payment_date": null,
            "payment_reference": null,
            "shipping_method": "",
            "fulfilment": {
                "status": "Delivered",
                "handle": "Delivered",
                "tracking_id": '123',
                "tracking_code": 'ABC1234',
                "tracking_url": null
            },
            "locale": "en_US",
            "customer": {
                "email": "test@test.com,
                "username": null,
                "billing": {
                    "phone": "123123123",
                    "first_name": "Joe",
                    "last_name": "Smith",
                    "company": "ABC Company",
                    "address": {
                        "address1": "123 Street",
                        "address2": "",
                        "address3": null,
                        "city": "Phoenix",
                        "state_province": "AZ",
                        "country": "US",
                        "postal_code": "55555"
                    }
                },
                "shipping": {
                    "first_name": "Joe",
                    "last_name": "Smith",
                    "company": "ABC Company", 
                    "address": {
                          "address1": "123 Street",
                          "address2": "",
                          "address3": null,
                          "city": "Phoenix",
                          "state_province": "AZ",
                          "country": "US",
                          "postal_code": "55555"
                      }
                }
            },
            "items": [
                {
                    "id": 123,
                    "name": "Example Product",
                    "sku": "ABCD",
                    "quantity": 1,
                    "price": 100.50
                }
            ]
        }

        // ... addition 19 orders would be included here

    ],
    "meta": {
        "pagination": {
            "total": 25,
            "count": 20,
            "per_page": 20,
            "current_page": 1,
            "total_pages": 2,
            "links": {
                "next": "http://concrete5.test/cs/api/v1/orders?page=2"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

##### Paginating Orders
Orders are returned with the most recent orders first, which is the same as the order ID in descending order.

The orders are paginated, returning 20 orders at a time. Note in the response there is a `meta` -> `pagination` section, containing values representing the pagination position.
The `links` within the pagination data include when applicable previous and next URLs, to navigate the pages of orders. No more pages are available when the `next` value is not returned.
The GET attribute `page` is used in the API call to select which page to return.

#### GET /cs/api/v1/orders/oID
Get an order
- scope required: cs:orders:read
- url parameters: oID = Order ID
- response: JSON representing individual order, within `data` value

#### PATCH /cs/api/v1/orders/oID
Update fulfilment details of an an individual order
- scope required: 'cs:orders:write
- updatable fields: tracking_id, tracking_code, tracking_url, handle
- raw body expected: JSON data, e.g.:
```
{
"data":
  { 
      "fulfilment": { 
          "handle": "shipped",
          "tracking_id": "123123123",
          "tracking_code": "AAABBCCC",
          "tracking_url": "https://trackmyparcel.com"
      }
  }
}
```
- response: JSON representing individual order, within `data` value, after update performed

#### GET /cs/api/v1/fulfilmentstatuses
Get all fulfilment statuses
- scope required: cs:orders:read
- example response:
```
{
    "data": [
        {
            "id": "1",
            "handle": "incomplete",
            "name": "Awaiting Processing"
        },
        {
            "id": "2",
            "handle": "processing",
            "name": "Processing"
        },
        {
            "id": "3",
            "handle": "shipped",
            "name": "Shipped"
        },
        {
            "id": "4",
            "handle": "delivered",
            "name": "Delivered"
        },
        {
            "id": "5",
            "handle": "nodelivery",
            "name": "Will not deliver"
        },
        {
            "id": "6",
            "handle": "returned",
            "name": "Returned"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Product related endpoints:

#### GET /cs/api/v1/products
Get all products
- scope required: cs:products:read
- response: JSON array of products, within `data` value

##### Paginating Products
Products are returned with the most recently added products first.

The products are paginated, returning 20 products at a time. Note in the response there is a `meta` -> `pagination` section, containing values representing the pagination position.
The `links` within the pagination data include when applicable previous and next URLs, to navigate the pages of products. No more pages are available when the `next` value is not returned.
The GET attribute `page` is used in the API call to select which page to return.

##### Filtering Products
Products can be filtered through the use of a `filter` parameter, following the pattern:
`?filter=date_added gt '2021-01-01T20:00'`
Currently, `date_added` and `date_updated` fields can be filtered, with gt, lt and eq comparisons.

#### GET /cs/api/v1/products/pID
Get a product
- scope required: cs:products:read
- url parameters: pID = Product ID
- response: JSON representing individual product, within `data` value
- example response:
```
{
    "data": {
        "id": 123,
        "name": "Example Product",
        "sku": "ABCD",
        "barcode": "",
        "active": true,
        "stock_unlimited": false,
        "stock_level": 10,
        "short_description": "Short description HTML",
        "description": "Extended description HTML",
        "brand": null,
        "price": 100.50,
        "primary_image": "https://domain.com/product.jpg",
        "additional_images": [
            "https://domain.com/product2.jpg"
        ],
        "groups": [
            "Product Group 1"
        ],
        "categories": [
            {
                "name": "Product Category 1",
                "url": "https://domain.com/category1"
            } 
        ],
        "variations": [],
        "date_added": {
            "date": "2020-10-05 15:41:00.000000",
            "timezone": "America/Phoenix"
        },
       "date_updated": {
            "date": "2020-10-05 15:41:00.000000",
            "timezone": "America/Phoenix"
        }
    }
}
```

#### PATCH /cs/api/v1/products/pID
Update a product
- updatable fields: stock_unlimited (boolean), stock_level (float)
- scope required: cs:products:write
- url parameters: pID = Product ID
- raw body expected: JSON data, e.g.:
```
{
  "data":
    { 
        "stock_level": 5,
        "stock_unlimited": true
    }
}
 ```
- response: JSON representing individual product, within `data` value, after update performed
 

#### GET /cs/api/v1/skus/sku
Get stock level of a product or variation, found via SKU 
- scope required: cs:products:read
- url parameters: sku = Product or Variation SKU

#### PATCH /cs/api/v1/skus/sku
Update the stock level of a product or variation by SKU
- updatable fields: stock_unlimited (boolean), stock_level (float)
- scope required: cs:products:write
- url parameters: sku = Product or Variation SKU
- raw body expected: JSON data, e.g.:
```
{
"data":
    { 
        "stock_level": 5,
        "stock_unlimited": true
    }
}
```
